In Go, methods provide a way to associate functions with specific types, including structs. Methods on structs allow you to define behaviors or actions that can be performed by instances of that struct. Here's an overview of methods on structs in Go:

1. Method Declaration:
    - To declare a method on a struct in Go, you define a function with a special receiver parameter. The receiver parameter is specified between the ```func``` keyword and the method name, and it specifies the type on which the method is defined.
    - The receiver can be a value receiver (which operates on a copy of the struct) or a pointer receiver (which operates on the original struct). This choice depends on whether you want to modify the original struct or work with a copy.
    - Here's an example of a method declaration for a struct type:
    ```Go
        type Rectangle struct {
        width  float64
        height float64
        }

        // Method with a value receiver
        func (r Rectangle) Area() float64 {
            return r.width * r.height
        }

        // Method with a pointer receiver
        func (r *Rectangle) Resize(factor float64) {
            r.width *= factor
            r.height *= factor
        }
    ```
    - In the above example, the ```Rectangle``` struct is defined, and two methods, ```Area``` and ```Resize```, are defined on the ```Rectangle``` type.
    
2. Invoking Methods:
    - To invoke a method on a struct, you use dot notation on an instance of the struct. The method is called on the specific instance, and the receiver parameter is automatically bound to that instance.
    - Here's an example of invoking methods on a struct:
    ```Go
        rect := Rectangle{width: 5.0, height: 3.0}
        area := rect.Area()  // Invoking the Area() method
        rect.Resize(2.0)     // Invoking the Resize() method
    ```
    - In the above example, the ```Area()``` method is called on the ```rect``` instance, and the returned value is assigned to the ```area``` variable. The ```Resize()``` method is called on the ```rect``` instance, modifying its width and height.

3. Value vs. Pointer Receivers:
    - When defining methods on structs, you have the option to use either value receivers or pointer receivers.
    - Value receivers receive a copy of the struct instance. If you modify the struct within the method, the changes will not be reflected in the original struct.
    - Pointer receivers receive a reference to the original struct instance. If you modify the struct within the method, the changes will be applied to the original struct.
    - Choosing between value and pointer receivers depends on whether you want to modify the original struct or work with a copy.

4. Method Visibility:
    - By default, methods declared on structs in Go are only visible within the same package.
    - If you want a method to be accessible outside of the package, you can make it public by capitalizing its name.
    - For example, if you have a struct named ```MyStruct```, a method named ```myMethod``` will only be visible within the same package, but a method named ```MyMethod``` will be accessible outside of the package.


Methods on structs in Go provide a way to define behaviors and actions that can be performed by instances of a specific struct type. They enable you to encapsulate functionality within the struct itself and provide a more object-oriented programming approach in Go.

    

